chore: Running heavy tests in PR on demand by clicking checkbox in PR description (#11540)
iotaledger/iota: .github/workflows/README.md

# CI workflows: design and security guide

This directory contains GitHub Actions workflows for `iotaledger/iota`.
**Read this guide before editing any workflow file.** Several of these
workflows interact with GitHub's security model in subtle ways — small
changes (a different trigger, a missing `persist-credentials: false`, an
unpinned action) can introduce critical vulnerabilities or quietly break
the intended invariants.

> The guide is written for both humans and LLMs assisting with edits.

Reviewer: Even though it's also for LLMs, I would reduce the content a lot. No need for `## Why this matters` and the references section, also other parts should be simplified. Nobody working on this here cares about all the references CVEs

Author: Agree, README may be simplified, I also had that in mind. Will do

Author: Done - left only pure info about how-to do it properly, what changes to review more cautiously, and help two references to pages about safety.

     `persist-credentials: false`.

2. **`.github/scripts/ci-trigger-dispatch.js`** — extend
   `CHECKBOX_DISPATCHES`:

   ```js
   const CHECKBOX_DISPATCHES = {
     'Run heavy tests': 'heavy_tests.yml',
     'Run e2e tests': 'e2e_tests.yml',   // new
   };
   ```

3. **`ci_trigger.yml`** — extend the pre-filter `if:` so the dispatcher
   spins up only for relevant edits:

   ```yaml
   if: >-
     github.event.sender.type != 'Bot'
     && (contains(github.event.pull_request.body, '- [x] Run heavy tests')
         || contains(github.event.pull_request.body, '- [x] Run e2e tests'))
   ```

4. **PR templates** in `.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE/` — add the matching
   checkbox line, e.g. `- [ ] Run e2e tests`, to each sub-template that
   contributors use.

If you skip step 2, the dispatcher will reject the marker (allowlist is
closed by default — failure mode is safe). If you skip step 3, the
dispatcher will run for unrelated description edits (extra runner cost,
not a security issue). If you skip step 4, the checkbox won't appear in
new PRs.

## References

### GitHub Actions documentation

- [Secure use reference](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/security/secure-use)

> - [Security hardening for GitHub Actions](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/security-hardening-for-github-actions)

Reviewer 2: This is the old document. Now it always redirects to https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/security/secure-use, and the title is now `Secure use reference`

```suggestion
- [Secure use reference](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/security/secure-use)
```

Author: Nice! Applying

> - [Reusing workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/reusing-workflows)

Reviewer 2: The url was old
```suggestion
- [Reusing workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/how-tos/reuse-automations/reuse-workflows)
```

> - [Events that trigger workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/using-workflows/events-that-trigger-workflows)

Reviewer 2: The url is the legacy one.
```suggestion
- [Events that trigger workflows](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/reference/workflows-and-actions/events-that-trigger-workflows)
```

### Notable breaches & writeups

- [tj-actions/changed-files (CVE-2025-30066)](https://github.com/advisories/ghsa-mrrh-fwg8-r2c3)

> - [Wiz — Hardening GitHub Actions: Lessons from Recent Attacks](https://www.wiz.io/blog/github-actions-security-guide)

Reviewer 2: The title is wrong.
```suggestion
- [Wiz — How to Harden GitHub Actions: An Updated Guide](https://www.wiz.io/blog/github-actions-security-guide)
```

- [Snyk — Trivy supply chain compromise](https://snyk.io/articles/trivy-github-actions-supply-chain-compromise/)
- [Orca — pull_request_nightmare Part 2](https://orca.security/resources/blog/pull-request-nightmare-part-2-exploits/)
- [Endor Labs — Lessons from Trivy](https://www.endorlabs.com/learn/github-actions-security-lessons-from-trivy)
- [Unit 42 — tj-actions Supply Chain Attack](https://unit42.paloaltonetworks.com/github-actions-supply-chain-attack/)

### Linting / static analysis tools (consider adding)

> - [zizmor](https://github.com/woodruffw/zizmor) — GitHub Actions linter

Reviewer 2: The `woodruffw` repo was actually removed. It was relocated to `zizmorcore` org
```suggestion
- [zizmor](https://github.com/zizmorcore/zizmor) — GitHub Actions linter
```
